# AI-Diagnosis-of-Brain-Tumors

Brain cancer is the 10th leading cause of death for men and women. It is estimated that 18,280 adults in the United States will die from primary cancerous brain and CNS tumors this year. When a patient reports potential symptoms, the initial diagnosis must be completed using MRI scans before doctors can go into further testing and treatment. MRIs have their limitations, which can make a proper diagnosis require more effort. When these limitations are combined with human error, inexperience, burnout, and wait times, the probability and consequences of early diagnosis errors become much worse. Initial errors often remain unnoticed or unchecked, meaning that they won’t be discovered until further testing is completed. If an error is found later in the process, doctors have to go back to the early imaging procedures and try again, which can add up to at least a month of time in total. This extra time can be even worse in other countries, where it can take upwards of 2 months just to schedule an MRI. The repercussions of an early misdiagnosis can be the cause of much bigger problems happening later on.

Computer vision is a type of artificial intelligence in which computer algorithms are used to interpret data in visual formats, including images and videos. A machine learning model is a complex algorithm that is fed data. It will try to find patterns that correlate between data points by breaking them down into numerically represented pixels. The process of determining patterns and training the model on the data can be iterated until they are accurate. The model can then be used to find trends and extrapolate new data. 

Computer Vision could be very useful in the brain tumor diagnosis issue. An algorithm can be trained on MRIs that are labeled by the presence and type of tumor and then tested and utilized to make independent diagnoses of brain tumors. The algorithm can teach itself the differences between a tumor and other neurological complications, and also be able to make classifications on different types of tumors.  This would effectively help cover the gaps in accuracy created by human error.  Since an AI can find complex hidden visual patterns in thousands of  MRI scans in a minute, they can quickly surpass human capabilities. This can make them a powerful tool for doctors to use to assist their analyses, as the burden of their workload can be reduced from diagnosing the imaging to reviewing the AI’s conclusion. The accuracy of an AI can easily be continuously iterated over and improved with more new and diversified data.   It is completely cloud-based meaning that an AI tool could be used by any doctor at any place, and diagnoses can be easily cataloged in electronic medical records

The purpose of this project is to develop an AI based tool that can effectively diagnose different tumors using magnetic resonance imagings and help doctors in the field.
